

## Dataset

The rows in the provided spreadsheet are hourly forecast data for Croyde, Devon, UK.

-	`TIMESTAMP`: UTC UNIX timestamp of forecast time
-	`WAVEMODEL_SIGH_MT`: Total significant wave height of all swells in meters
-	`WAVEMODEL_PART_X_SIGH_MT`: Significant wave height of swell partition X in meters (there are up to 6 partitions, labelled 0,1,2,3,4,5)
-	`WAVEMODEL_PART_X_PERIOD_SEC`: Peak period of swell partition X in seconds
-	`WAVEMODEL_PART_X_DIRECTION_DEG`: Compass direction of swell partition X in degrees
-	`WAVEMODEL_PART_X_SPREAD_DEG`: Spread of swell partition X in degrees
-	`TIDE_LEVEL_FT`: Tide level in feet
-	`OBSERVATION_MAXBWH_FT`: Maximum breaking wave height at the beach in feet as observed by our forecaster. This should be considered ground truth.
-	`SURFMODEL_MAXBWH_MT` : Maximum breaking wave height at the beach in meters as modelled by our “SURFMODEL”

## Notes

`SIGH` and `BWH` are highly correlated – it basically means that the more energy in the open water, the larger the waves at the beach. What’s tricky is how that relationship changes across different swell periods, directions, and bathymetries at different beaches. This is beyond this challenge but a very interesting problem.

Ocean waves, or the energy they carry, typically arrive at your local beach as a spectrum. This spectrum consists of wind-sea (generated by prevailing winds closer to shore, resulting in mushy waves) and swell generated by distant storms. These storms can be closer (creating shorter period waves) or further away (generating longer period waves). To better understand these diverse sources, wave models, like our in-house LOTUS or WaveWatch III, partition the spectra, highlighting these different contributions. You can see these swell partitions depicted on the Swell Partition graph and the new Swell Spectra graph on our website and the data we sent includes those partitions. The numbers given to the partitions are arbitrary, they don’t mean anything. We just count the number of partitions at any given time and fill the columns 0, 1, 2, etc. In short, swell partitions are a data representation of the different swells in the water. The impact of swell partitions on conditions varies depending on the specific location. Certain spots, like Huntington Beach and other beach breaks in the area (El Porto, etc.), thrive on mid-period combo swells, which offer a good wave count and avoid closeouts. Conversely, locations like Malibu favour longer period swells for those long, peeling rights. While the answer can be complex, that's part of what makes this field so interesting, right? Again, not something we will fully answer in this task.

Some more resources on swell partitions:

YouTube video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vlv2iLRjtDw

Surfline article: https://www.surfline.com/lp/whatsnew/features/swell-spectra


## Tasks

### 1. 

Explore this dataset, and statistically and visually analyze the performance of the `SURFMODEL` (ideally it would be perfectly aligned with the observations). 

### 2.

Can you improve the SURFMODEL? Can you build a better one?

### 3.

How would you build a product around the hourly model data and the twice daily observations? How would you assimilate the human observations into the model?